[MUSIC]
>> Joe Nelson: I think we should
probably start.
There's all kinds of things we could do,
like doing the API calls and stuff.
But it might be easiest
to start by making it so
when I type it into this box,
we can just log it.
[LAUGH] And we can see it on the console.
See that something's happening.
So, what's cool about this pairing
bit is that I don't always have all
these things at the tip of my tongue, like
exactly what these events stream is called
bacon dot from event stream or something.
So, I'll be discussing it and you and
Brian are gonna be like, yeah,
try this and so
we're going to learn the thought process.
So I'm trying to think, we could
start with pure and impure things.
A pure thing would be just attaching
an event stream to something, you're
not really running it yet it's just there
if you ever wanted it, so it's still pure.
So say like val maybe.
>> Student 1: We gonna get a hold of that
text field though, and that's gonna be-
>> Joe Nelson: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Student 1: Yeah.
We should first grab the search I think.
>> Joe Nelson: Okay.
So we can say get DOM or something.
And what I like to do for my own
sanity in a language of strong typing,
it will dot your eyes and cross your tees.
You're just trying to do
something that makes no sense.
But I had comments for myself in
JavaScript cuz I was really confused.
So I'll say getDom, what does it do?
It's gonna take a selector,
I guess it's just a string,
and it's gonna to go to
an IO of a DOM like element.
And this is all just
kind of like pseudo code.
>> Student 1: Really helpful
documentation, thoiugh.
>> Joe Nelson: Yeah.
So here's a function.
>> Joe Nelson: Actually I
wonder if we need that?
If we could just take,
cuz I've included jQuery, so
I can be like to IO on the jQuery things.
I can be dollar dot to IO.
>> Student 1: Nice.
[LAUGH]
>> Joe Nelson: That's an IO.
>> Student 1: [LAUGH] Done.
>> Joe Nelson: Done, done and done.
Cool, now we can get things IOs.
So we want another thing it's
going to attach an event stream.
So there's gonna be different
kinds of streams we can get.
We could maybe call it a click stream.
And you give the click stream, what it is
that you're going to get the clicks from.
So it's going to be kind of similar.
We wanna get like the search text.
I think right now.
>> Student 1: Are we gonna start the-
>> Joe Nelson: I'm thinking I just
the events like something happened
some DOM thing, I said click but
I meant typing in the press.
>> Student 1: I see.
>> Joe Nelson: The press.
Yeah.
That's what four hours of
asleep will do to you.
So let's get a key press.
Var key press stream.
Cool and that's also,
let's put our docs first,
I like to think of it that way.
>> Student 3: What is this documentation
thing you keep talking about?
>> Multiple: [LAUGH]
>> Student 2: It was hard to write,
it should be hard to read.
[LAUGH]
>> Joe Nelson: Okay, so key press stream.
That's gonna take, once again,
just a string of selector and
it's gonna go to an event stream.
I guess I'll call it DomEvent.
Like I said, that's kind of imaginary,
but it's enough to suggest to me.
Wait actually.
It's probably gonna be an IO.
Now let's do it this way.
This doesn't take a stream,
it takes an already gotten IO thing,
because if I was like,
find the DOM thing here.
I'd have to be inside IO too and
I don't like to be inside all
those things I can help it.
So this will be a DOM, piece of DOM.
Okay DOM, or element maybe.
>> Joe Nelson: Okay
now, wait, the way Bacon's event stream
works, the order of its arguments,
like the order of everything in this
world, are kind of awkward for carrying.
So we can make our own wrapper for it.
I could call it listen.
And what would be a good way?
We know the type, so the thing that
we always think we're trying to,
when we wanna make the order for querying
we want the things that we know to come
first in the things that
we don't know to come next.
So, I say what do I know?
I know that the event type that I want.
What I don't know is the the DOM, the
element that we're going to apply it to.
Okay, so, that will be probably,
let's see,
bacon dot event stream from or something.
>> Student 1: Bacon dot from event
target.
>> Joe Nelson: And
it's gonna be the elements and the type.
Now I gotta return it.
>> Joe Nelson: Probably semi-colon,
okay.
>> Student 1: There's a useful utility
called flip that works.
>> Joe Nelson: Do we have it?
>> Student 1: For this exact thing.
>> Student 1: No, we wanna wrap this
in query as well?
>> Joe Nelson: Is flip query?
So I could do flip of-
>> Student 1: I don't think flip query's
the function, no.
So you probably wanna just leave it and
query it.
>> Joe Nelson: I could query flip.
>> Student 1: I don't think we should be
messing with flip right now.
I just think it's a cool thing to know.
>> Joe Nelson: Okay.
So now we can listen to things.
Now our key press stream, this isn't bad.
>> Student 2: Didn't
you say you wanted to do flip?
>> Student 1: Yeah,
you just got flip up there.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Student 1: I think we should query it,
though.
>> Joe Nelson: You're totally right.
I'm so used to things being auto queried,
it's just like, hey.
>> Student 1: Usually the rule of
thumb for me is,
if I ever have more than one argument,
I just query it, why not?
>> Joe Nelson: This guy actually probably
doesn't even, you don't have to
bind the glue variables here.
It's probably just a lesson
of click at this point.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Joe Nelson: Yeah, why am I
thinking about the clicks in the licks?
We need to think of the key,
which is the best?
Key down will be weird things like
controls and shifts so probably a key up.
And our key press,
I don't know, let's try key up.
Okay cool, now you've got a stream.
So in our impure stuff,
let's do something.
Let's see we wanna find the element and
kind of compose it in here and make it
log, I wish we had a handy log, cool.
The commit I started with has all this
good stuff, compose map log for, okay,
so let's think through it.
>> Student 1: Said HTML's not 2IOed but
that's fine.
>> Joe Nelson: Okay, so
it's gonna be a compose.
The final thing will be a log, but
it'll probably like a map of log
if we're gonna be inside of stuff.
And we're gonna be doing, right,
we're gonna get the, wait a second.
Is map gonna work with event
stream just like anything will?
I don't have to be on event or
anything it's just map.
Like, any functor?
>> Student 1: You wanna run IO because-
Well let's go ahead and get the DOM and
then figure out what we're dealing with.
>> Joe Nelson: Okay.
>> Student 1: Cuz that'll be an IO.
And then, yeah if you log that,
it'll just be the search.
If you map log that'll
be an IO of whatever log
return.
>> Joe Nelson: I wanted to get a key press
stream.
>> Student 1: Okay.
>> Joe Nelson: Of that stuff.
So we find it, we get the stream, and now
what I'm wondering is if the map is gonna
get recalled on the events in the stream,
because it's a functor like
any other functor.
>> Student 1: Well I think first things
first, is we need to map key
press stream over get DOM.
Cuz get DOM's an IO.
>> Joe Nelson: Yeah, yeah you're right.
Gotta get inside.
>> Student 1: And now we have an IO of
an event stream DOM event.
>> Joe Nelson: No.
>> Student 1: [INAUDIBLE] So
now we have to map map log.
Actually I'm sorry.
We don't have to map, yeah yeah.
Map map log.
>> Joe Nelson: I don't remember if we
were able to move that in our final thing,
or
if we had the nasty map maps hanging out.
>> Student 1: Well at this point we were
impure, and so
the composed is kind of silly.
Cuz we have our data at this point.
We have our search, right?
So, why are we going through all
the trouble of trying to point free,
when we have our points.
So, I think we just run stuff.
So, I would just get DOM dot map,
key press stream.
>> Joe Nelson: Dot map
>> Student 1: Okay, so-
>> Joe Nelson: That strain.
Another one.
>> Student 1: Then we'll run IO.
So that give us,
that'll actually get the search thing and
then give us a key press stream.
So, after runIO, just do .onValue.
>> Joe Nelson: That's
what I was wondering.
Whether I could have done theoretically,
have done map here or
will only on value work
because the way the library's written?
>> Student 1: No map will just keep
returning pure streams
until you call on value.
Nothing will ever happen until
[INAUDIBLE].
>> Joe Nelson: Let's see what [INAUDIBLE]
>> Student 1: You know what?
We gotta do that extend function here.
Remember we hit that
last time we tried this?
We built this before, you guys, secretly.
>> Joe Nelson: Yeah we can jump to
the [INAUDIBLE] It's all gonna be fine.
>> Student 1: [CROSSTALK] But
at the very [INAUDIBLE] extend the,
IO extend function,
bring an IO extender.
>> Joe Nelson: Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
We want IO,
we're gonna have to ask for it.
>> Student 1: Yeah.
We extend functions to call to IO at
the end, because it's a pain in the butt
with arguments otherwise.
>> Joe Nelson: Not fun.
Now at least [INAUDIBLE] fun,
just punching.
Okay.
>> Student 1: That should do it.
>> Joe Nelson: Nice, okay,
now let's go to the console.
So, now you get events coming through.
So, I like to think of it as, you get a
stream of one kind, you could intercept it
before anything happened, just purely,
before anything has happened.
And make a derivative
stream of another kind.
So it's like, cool, we got this.
What if our stream was now the actual
key that was pressed by
grabbing that out of there.
So lets see, how do we find that?
I select the event.something or other?
>> Student 1: KeyCode.
>> Joe Nelson: Is it event.keyCode?
>> Student 1: It's right there.
>> Joe Nelson: Or just keyCode?
No, I want the actual deal if possible.
>> Student 1: I
think we should get the target value,
because we want the whole search
value of the search box.
>> Joe Nelson: [CROSSTALK]
Yeah, that's true.
>> Student 1: Do stream of whatever's in
the search at the time event happened.
So [INAUDIBLE] targeted.
>> Joe Nelson: There's a lot and
then okay [CROSSTALK] Nice.
So we can get that.